feat: mirroring documentation (#80)
Ultramarine-Linux/wiki: src/content/docs/en/contributing/mirroring.mdx

---
title: Mirroring
description: "A guide of how you can mirror Ultramarine Linux, making downloads faster for everyone"
---

> Mirroring allows you to contribute to the Ultramarine Linux ecosystem by hosting packages closer to users, making downloads faster, more reliable, and reducing load on Fyra Labs' core infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mirroring allows you to contribute  by hosting packages closer to users, making downloads faster, more reliable, and reducing load on Fyra Labs' infrastructure.
```

> When users update or install packages, they'll hit our mirror director service, [Tetsudou](https://github.com/terrapkg/tetsudou), which will calculate an optimal set of mirrors to download updates from, possibly including yours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users update or install packages, they'll hit our mirror director service, [Tetsudou](https://github.com/terrapkg/tetsudou), which will calculate an optimal set of mirrors to download updates from.
```
good idea but feels kinda forced here

## Requirements

- A publicly accessible server with good uptime
- A domain name
- A good internet connection (1Gbps or more)
- A moderate amount of disk space (100GB or more)
- Experience with server administration

## Mirroring using Terra Mirror Scripts

We provide a mirror script (and accessory Docker image) to help you get started. Documentation is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/terrapkg/mirror-script).

## Mirroring using rsync

You can also mirror the repositories using the `rsync-ssl` utility.

```sh
rsync-ssl -avPzr --delete rsync://repos.fyralabs.com/repo/ /path/to/your/mirror
```

## Running on a schedule

> Regardless of whether you're using the mirror script or directly calling rsync, you'll need to run them on a schedule to keep your mirror up-to-date. We recommend schedudling for every 5 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of whether you're using the mirror script or directly calling rsync, you'll need to rerun to keep your mirror up-to-date. We recommend syncing every 5 minutes.
```

> This is required if you want to submit your mirror to the public list. We may remove mirrors that are not kept up-to-date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is required if you want to submit your mirror to the public list. We will remove mirrors that are not kept up-to-date.
```
certainty is better here

You can use any method for this, but we recommend systemd timers. A good guide on how to set up a systemd timer can be found [here](https://opensource.com/article/20/7/systemd-timers).

## Serving your mirror

All mirrors must be served over HTTPS. You can use a web server of your choosing to serve your mirror, we recommend using [Static Web Server](https://static-web-server.net/) or [Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/).

## Submitting your mirror

Once you have your mirror set up, you can submit it to the public mirror list by opening a pull request on the [Tetsudou repository](https://github.com/terrapkg/tetsudou).

The public mirror configuration is stored in the `repos/` directory. Each JSON file represents a repository that can be mirrored. You can add your mirror in the appropriate JSON files.

> If you're mirroring all repositories, the default, you ned to add your mirror to all JSON files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're mirroring all repositories (the default), you ned to add your mirror to all JSON files.
```
